my name is Tom Chi I spent two years of
my life building the user experience
team for the Google X division of Google
and I'm it's a place I affectionately
called the department of science fiction
because of the futuristic nature of the
types of projects we took on
self-driving cars Google glass and other
things that you'll see soon enough
so for those who haven't heard of this
project this is what Google glass looks
like it allows you to overlay digital
things into your eye sight while still
maintaining being part of a world so if
I you know were to pull out my cell
phone and look into it I'm basically out
of this world now like I'm in my own
little cell phone tablet world what have
you but Google glass has the vision of
allowing us to continue to be in the
world but also have access to the
digital things that we need and we love
now I'm going to ask you a really simple
question about Google glass how would
you prototype this experience how long
do you think it would take you to make
the first working version of a heads-up
display
okay a little bit on the long side the
answer is one day and here's what it
looked like so basically the the magic
piece is the coat hanger the coat hanger
I bent it in a specific shape and the
top loop goes around your neck and then
the bottom loop rests against your chest
and it allows me to to carry a piece of
plexiglass on which a little sheet
protector so these are the things that
you put your book reports in so they
don't get wet literally got at the
drugstore you know have it out at the
end of the plexiglass and then it gets
projected on to with the projector
that's connected to a netbook and using
the set up within one day we are already
able to start having the experience of
what it looks like to have digital
things overlaid on your physical world
be able to move around with it and also
you use the netbook to try out tons and
tons of different ideas around software
now after you start getting something
like that working you know a really
important problem comes up like you're
wearing this thing on your head it's
it's like a pair of glasses so you don't
have a mouse or a keyboard or a
touchscreen all the ways that you're
used to interacting with a with a
machine so we thought for a second well
maybe we could do something like you
know what was shown in Minority Report
so for folks who haven't seen that
basically Tom Cruise is manipulating
software with his hands in front of his
face and photos are flying over here and
his emails and over here and so on and
so forth so that's the same question
again how long do you think it would
take to to have the real experience of
doing something like that two years okay
somebody hasn't said one day 45 minutes
so here's how it looks so you wear the
thing that we saw the first time because
you need some way to go project things
but what happens is we got two hair
bands which I think was the hardest part
we had to go ask people for their hair
bands but you you put one hand in each
hair band and attach that hair band we
tied up a fishing line and the fishing
line goes over the top of a white board
and then goes down to this little
assembly that's taped to the floor and
what this means is every time I move my
hand in any direction it adds tension to
the line and it it does the following
with the ascent
on the floor so the other end of the
fishing wire is attached to a chopstick
and it's not because I'm Asian there's
just a cafeteria nearby
I don't just carry chopsticks on me but
but I tied it to the end of a chopstick
I clipped it into a binder clip and then
put it over a pen and basically what
happens then is when you move your arm
and it produces tension on the wire
chopstick comes down like a lever and
clicks a presentation clicker one hand
moves the presentation forward the other
hand moves the presentation backwards so
this was built in 45 minutes and that
met shortly afterwards we're having
experiences like looking at an image
gallery and saying next image next image
previous image or looking at our emails
and saying let me click into this email
let me click reply now and this was
exactly the experience of what it was
like to go control software with your
hands and ultimately what it taught us
is we probably shouldn't have this in
the product we learned a lot of things
about about the social awkwardness of it
and some of the economic aspects of it
but you couldn't have like figured out
ahead of just thinking about it and you
know ergo the second prototyping rule
which is doing is the best kind of
thinking they teach you to think a lot
in school but I think it's a little bit
overrated
now last example you know actually
Google's not the first team that's
that's tried to go make something like
this if you search for heads-up display
you get tons of images of teams that
have built various systems like this but
I can tell you at a glance that none of
these pieces of hardware are comfortable
to wear for more than 15 minutes is set
for maybe the helmet over there but then
you got to wear helmet so you know how
would you go figure out a way to go wear
something like this comfortably the
answer is really basic materials
modeling wire paper clay and using
something like this is able to make
something that look like a pair of
glasses really quickly I cut out pieces
of clay that weighed exactly the same
amount is the electronic components that
that we were talking about putting on
the device wrapped it in paper so you
didn't get clay on your face and then
taped it to the modeling wire in various
places to go experiment with with how a
pair of glasses could fit on you and we
discovered something really important
then like if you
get this drawing on the bottom it turns
out that the weight of a pair of glasses
is actually mostly perceived through how
much weight is on your nose and it also
turns out that your ears can carry a lot
more weight than your nose and that's a
totally different experiment you could
ask you about that but because of that
fact if you put weight behind your ears
it allows your ear to go act like the
fulcrum of a lever and it then takes
weight off of your nose on the front and
actually you guys can try this now
anyway the glasses if you push very
gently on the back of your your glasses
you'll find actually your glasses feel
tremendously lighter now this meant that
we not only discovered something
interesting about how to go that's
useful for developing a device like this
we actually discovered something pretty
fundamental that had never been
discovered about glasses period so if
you have really heavy glasses you can do
this that you will be more comfortable
now the last point I want to make is
about two types of learning because
through the process of rapid prototyping
you're able to learn very rip very
quickly it's a very specific type of
learning you know the type of learning
that you usually learn in school I call
book learning it comes from what
humanity already knows and it's a
necessary foundation for you guys to go
explore the world but there's a totally
different type of learning which I call
expansive learning and this is the
learning that you do on behalf of
humanity right you are creating
something new you are expanding into the
possibilities and you're building that
sphere of human knowledge in that
process and we think about these things
and as soon as you hear like okay the
infinite realm of possibilities beyond
the sphere of human knowledge you might
be thinking well there's the scientist
that at the Large Hadron Collider and
who have these amazing instruments like
that's that's their job right but the
truth is is that this this action is
available to all of us you know it's not
just for the scientist it's also for the
poet or the songwriter that expresses an
emotion for the first time in a unique
way it's also for the person that has an
amazing business idea that that they're
certain can help millions of lives and
it's the realm of using paper clay and
tape in order to go find a new insight
in H
technology so now that you guys know
about rapid prototyping I'm excited to
see what you'll do with it thank you